{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}}
\fs24
\b Inventory Management System — Comparison Report\b0\par
\par
\b Executive Summary\b0\par
This report compares the current project against a reference inventory management feature set, highlights detailed gaps (how each feature is missing), and proposes a simple, implementable roadmap suitable for a solo developer.\par
\par
\b Current Project Features\b0\par
- Stock In with vendor and product details\par
- Stock Out with party/dispatch details\par
- Product attributes: category, size, color (from past entries)\par
- Stock summary for available variants and remaining quantities\par
- Stock Out validation against available quantity\par
- PDF receipts for Stock In/Out\par
- Barcode generation (Code128) on submit\par
- Authentication with protected routes (JWT)\par
\par
\b Reference Software Features\b0\par
- Inventory valuation: FIFO\par
- Daily/Monthly sales & stock register & report analysis\par
- Barcode/Design/Color/Size management\par
- Multiple rate setting\par
- Inward Challan, Inward Return\par
- Stock valuation reports & vendor analysis\par
- Purchase Order (PO) management\par
- Stock audit\par
- Stock damage & loss\par
- Fresh & defective stock management\par
- Track inventory at multiple warehouses\par
- Monthly/Yearly stock comparison\par
- Stock ageing, moving, non-moving with graph\par
- Stock level management (min/max)\par
- Stock ratio\par
\par
\b Detailed Gap Analysis (How it is missing)\b0\par
- Valuation (FIFO): No cost layers are recorded on stock-in, stock-out does not consume specific layers, and there is no inventory ledger or valuation report. Quantities are tracked without unit costs.\par
- Reports: Only per-transaction PDF receipts exist. There are no date-range APIs or pages for sales/stock registers, no daily/monthly aggregations, and no CSV/PDF export for registers.\par
- Barcode/Attributes: Barcode generation works, but the "design" attribute is not present in the product variant model or UI; Design/Color/Size coverage is partial.\par
- Price (Multiple rate setting): No price lists or tiered rates; selling price is not stored per variant with effective dates.\par
- Returns: No endpoints or UI for Inward Return/Outward Return. No reversal entries linked to original documents, and no return receipt/challan generation.\par
- Vendor analysis: Vendor information exists within Stock In but there are no summary endpoints or reports (totals by vendor, last purchase date, performance).\par
- Purchase Orders (PO): Absent PO models, statuses (draft/approved), and receiving linkage to Stock In. No UI to create/approve POs.\par
- Audits: No audit trail fields (createdBy/updatedBy/timestamps) and no stock audit process (cycle counts, adjustments, approvals).\par
- Quality states: No fields/flows for fresh vs defective; no damage/loss write-off entries with reasons/approvals.\par
- Warehouses: No warehouse entity; inventory is global. No per-warehouse on-hand balances or transfer capability.\par
- Comparisons/Analytics: No monthly/yearly comparison endpoints, no ageing classification, and no moving/non-moving tagging or charts.\par
- Stock levels: No min/max fields on variants and no low-stock or reorder suggestion queries.\par
- Ratios: No stock ratio definitions or calculations in data model or reports.\par
\par
\b Minimal, Non-Complex Roadmap (Recommended)\b0\par
- Simple Registers\par
  - Add date-range APIs for Stock In/Out and basic pages with filters and CSV/PDF export.\par
- Inward Challan + Simple Returns\par
  - Add "inwardChallanNo" to Stock In and implement a basic Inward Return that reverses quantities with a reason.\par
- Product Enhancements\par
  - Add "design" to product variant; include in forms and filters.\par
- Vendor Basics\par
  - Add a minimal vendor master and a simple totals-by-vendor report.\par
- Stock Levels\par
  - Add "minLevel" per variant and a low-stock report (no alerts initially).\par
\par
\b Deferred (Complex/Enterprise — Future)\b0\par
- Full FIFO valuation engine and valuation reports\par
- Purchase Orders with approvals, receiving, and returns\par
- Multi-warehouse with transfers\par
- Stock audits with cycle counting\par
- Damage & loss workflows with approvals\par
- Fresh/Defective stock segregation\par
- Ageing and moving/non-moving analytics with charts\par
- Min/Max auto-replenishment and alerts\par
- Stock ratios and advanced dashboards\par
\par
\b Notes\b0\par
- Keep DB indexes on frequently filtered fields (date, product, vendor).\par
- Reuse existing receipt generation where possible to stay simple.\par
}
